#summary Instructions on how to get a nightly developer build
#labels Featured

== Introduction ==

Nightly builds are meant as developer builds and are built daily by our automated server.

They do not work straight out-of-the-box, as they exclude a few files that rarely change but are necessary to work. This is because of size and bandwidth issues, and the fact that they are meant as incremental updates for those that already have the necessary files installed.

Please bear in mind that these builds are developer builds and will be
unstable. For a list of changes for each revision, head over to our
project page for more information.

== Setting up nightly builds ==

Nightly builds are designed in a manner in which minimal updates are required in order to install a new nightly.  This however means that you must first follow some specific steps to get your nightly build working.

=== Download the latest nightly build ===
First off you should download the latest available nightly build.  
  * You should pick the nightly with the *highest revision number*.
  * You can find all available nightly builds here: http://nightly.multitheftauto.com/
  * Run the installer

If you want to know how to install and run the nightly builds, check out the [http://code.google.com/p/multitheftauto/wiki/GettingStarted Getting Started] page which describes how to run the software.

=== Download the run dependencies ===
You must also download and install run dependencies.  These are files which are required by MTA to run, but usually do not change and therefore are not included in the nightly build.
  * You can find the latest available data archive [http://code.google.com/p/multitheftauto/downloads/list?q=label:Data here.]
  * Place the contents of the *MTA San Andreas* folder into your *MTA San Andreas* installation folder.

=== Download the latest resources ===
The latest resources are also required in order for the MTA server to function properly.  The map editor is also included within the resource package.  Default resources from previous versions of MTASA are outdated, and will not function.
  * You should pick the resource archive with the *highest revision number*.
  * You can find the latest available resources [http://code.google.com/p/multitheftauto/downloads/list?q=label:Data here.]
  * The contents of the archive should be placed inside your *MTA San Andreas\server\mods\deathmatch\resources* directory.

=== Start the game ===
You have now installed all the components required to run a nightly build.  You should now be able to run both the client and the server, or join any servers that may be available.

Bugs, suggestions or feedback can go in either our forums or the bugtracker
  * http://forum.multitheftauto.com
  * http://bugs.multitheftauto.com